From the New York Times, I'm Michael
Babaro. This is a special episode of the
daily.
[Music]
On Friday morning, police in Utah said
that they had arrested a suspect in
Charlie Kirk's assassination,
ending a massive manhunt that had
stretched over 33 hours.
Today, what we know about the alleged
killer and his motives.
It's Friday afternoon, September 12th.
>> Any updates on the suspect?
>> Yeah. Uh, can I always say, uh, I think
just to protect us all and so Fox
doesn't get sued and we all don't get
sued. The news came from President Trump
himself on Fox News early Friday
morning.
>> I think uh with a high degree of
certainty, we have him
>> in custody, right in custody.
>> After 2 days of false starts and
mistaken identity, including the
questioning of two men who were later
released, police in Utah, Trump said,
had arrested the man that they believed
had killed Charlie Kirk. Everybody did a
great job, you know, getting somebody
that you start off with absolutely
nothing. And we started off with a clip
that made him look like an ant that was
almost useless. We just saw there was
somebody up there and uh so much work
has been done over the last two and a
half days. You know, it's amazing.
>> Fox anchors repeatedly push Trump to
answer the question on everyone's mind.
>> What can you share with us about his
ideology?
>> What exactly were the shooters motives
and ideology?
>> I don't want to go too far. I'd like to
tell you some stories that how it
happened, but
>> but Trump deflected. Instead, Trump laid
out a complicated story yet to be
independently verified about how police
had found the suspect.
>> Well, it was a minister and uh the
minister went to a friend, a minister
who was involved with law enforcement by
the way. He said that somebody who knew
the suspect had recognized him in the
photos released by police on Thursday.
>> And then it was uh a father got
involved, namely his father.
>> And then eventually the suspect's own
father persuaded him to turn himself
into police.
>> But they uh drove into the police
headquarters and uh he's there now.
[Music]
Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We
got him.
>> A few hours later, the governor of Utah,
Republican Spencer Cox, held a news
conference. On the evening of September
11th, a family member of Tyler Robinson
reached out to
>> Cox identified the suspect as
22-year-old Tyler Robinson and seemed to
confirm some of what Trump had said on
TV.
>> A family friend contacted the Washington
County Sheriff's Office with information
that Robinson had confessed to them or
implied that he had committed the
incident. And Cox explained why police
had become so certain that Robinson was
the shooter and that he had acted alone.
>> When encountered in person by
investigators in Washington County on
September 12th in the early morning
hours, Robinson was observed in
consistent clothing with those
surveillance images. Cox said that
police had interviewed Robinson's
roommate, who had shared text messages
with police in which Robinson had
allegedly discussed the rifle that
police now believe was used in the
assassination.
>> The content of these messages stating a
need to retrieve a rifle from a drop
point.
>> And then Cox addressed the question of
motive. Investigators interviewed a
family member of Robinson who stated
that Robinson had become more political
in recent years. The family member
referenced a recent incident in which
Robinson came to dinner prior to
September 10th. And in the conversation
with another family member, Robinson
mentioned Charlie Kirk was coming to
UVU.
>> Robinson, he said, knew that Kirk was
coming to town. And Robinson had spoken
with a member of his family about their
shared dislike for Charlie Kirk.
>> They talked about why they didn't like
him and the viewpoints that he had. The
family member also stated Kirk was full
of hate and spreading hate.
>> And finally, the governor described
engravings on the casings of bullets
that police had found at the scene of
the shooting. Engravings filled with a
mix of anti-fascist language and
references to online gaming.
>> Inscriptions on the three unfired
casings read, "Hey, fascist exclamation
point. Catch exclamation point." up
arrow symbol, right arrow and uh symbol,
and three down arrow symbols. A second
unfired casing read, "Oh, Bella Chow,
Bella Chow, Bella Chow, Chow Chow." And
a third unfired casing read, "If you
read this, you are gay." L M A O.
>> In those engravings, Robinson appeared
to adopt the flippant in jokey chatter
of internet message boards. And what was
clear was that police believe that they
have extensive evidence tying Robinson
to Kirk's shooting, but a less than
complete picture of why Robinson's
apparent dislike of Kirk had led him to
allegedly carry out this wellplanned
assassination.
>> Cox took a few questions from reporters.
And at the end of the news conference,
>> um I I don't want to get too preachy,
but I think it's important that we with
eyes wide open understand what what's
happening in our our country today.
>> He asked for a chance to address the
entire country. And at a time when
President Trump has been calling for
vengeance, Cox delivered a very
different kind of message.
>> I've heard people say, "Well, why are we
why are we so invested in this? There's
violence happening all across our
country and violence is tragic
everywhere and every life taken is is a
child of God um who deserves our love
and respect and dignity. This is uh this
is certainly about the uh the tragic
death assassination political
assassination of of Charlie Kirk. Um,
but it is also much bigger than an
attack on an individual. It is an attack
on all of us. It is an attack on the
American experiment. Is it is an attack
on our ideals.
>> He spoke of a country that he feared is
spiraling out of control. And
specifically speaking to young people,
he pointed to what he said is a path
forward.
>> Your generation has an opportunity to
build a culture that is very different
than what we are suffering through right
now.
Not by pretending differences don't
matter, but by embracing our differences
and having those hard conversations.
I I think we need more moral clarity
right now. I hear all the time that
words are violence. Words are not
violence. Violence is violence.
And there is one person responsible
for what happened here. And that person
is now in custody
and will be charged soon and will be
held accountable.
And and yet all of us have an
opportunity right now to do something
different. Turn off your phone, read
scripture, spend time with friends, and
remember, internet fury is not real
life. It's going to be okay.
As of Friday afternoon, Tyler Robinson
was being held without bail in a Utah
prison, awaiting charges. We're going to
continue to follow this story closely
over the coming days, both here on the
daily and at ny times.com and we'll
bring you the latest developments as
soon as we can.
Today's episode was produced by Claire
Tennis and Mujadi. It was edited by
Michael Benois and Paige Cowat and was
engineered by Diane Wong.
I'm Michael Bubaro. See you on Monday.